HW3
================
Shayne Estill (ske2118)

The “ny_noaa” dataset has 2595176 rows and 7 columns. From the NY NOAA
information page, The resulting R dataset ny_noaa contains variables:

id: Weather station ID date: Date of observation prcp: Precipitation
(tenths of mm) snow: Snowfall (mm) snwd: Snow depth (mm) tmax: Maximum
temperature (tenths of degrees C) tmin: Minimum temperature (tenths of
degrees C)

The variable types include id(chr), date(date), prcp(int), snow(int),
snwd(int), tmax(chr), and tmin(chr).

There is a significant amount of missing data. There are 145838 missing
precipitation values, 381221 missing snow values, 591786 missing snow
depth values, 1134358 missing max temperature values, 1134420 missing
min temperature values, 0 missing date values, 0 missing ID values

\#Do some data cleaning. Create separate variables for year, month, and
day.

I also changed the new variables for year, month, and day to character.

\###Ensure observations for temperature, precipitation, and snowfall are
given in reasonable units.

The max tmax value is 99 . The min tmin value is -1. This seems
unreasonable for Celsius measures.

The max precipitation value is 22860. This seems unreasonable for tenths
of a mm.

The max snowfall value is 10160. These values don’t make sense. We
should convert these variables from character and int to double.

``` r
ny_noaa_cleaned <-ny_noaa_cleaned |>
  mutate(
    tmax = as.double(tmax, digits = 2),
    tmin = as.double(tmin, digits = 2),
    snow = as.double(snow, digits = 2),
    snwd = as.double(snow, digits = 2)
  )
```

``` r
ny_noaa_cleaned <- ny_noaa_cleaned |>
  mutate(
    tmax = tmax / 10,
    tmin = tmin / 10
  )
```

The max precipitation value is 22860 The max tmax value is 60 The min
tmin value is -59.4

For snowfall, what are the most commonly observed values? Why?

``` r
ny_noaa_cleaned |>
  ggplot(aes(x = snow)) + 
  geom_histogram() 
```

    ## `stat_bin()` using `bins = 30`. Pick better value with `binwidth`.

    ## Warning: Removed 381221 rows containing non-finite outside the scale range
    ## (`stat_bin()`).

![](HW3_2_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png)<!-- -->

The most commonly observed snowfall values are zero. This is because the
majority of the year, there is no snowfall in New York.

Make a two-panel plot showing the average max temperature in January and
in July in each station across years. Is there any observable /
interpretable structure? Any outliers?

``` r
avg_temp <- ny_noaa_cleaned |>
  filter(month == 1| month == 7 ) |>
  group_by(id, month) |>
  summarize(avg_max_temp = mean(tmax, na.rm = TRUE))
```

    ## `summarise()` has grouped output by 'id'. You can override using the `.groups`
    ## argument.

Make a two-panel plot showing (i) tmax vs tmin for the full dataset
(note that a scatterplot may not be the best option); and (ii) make a
plot showing the distribution of snowfall values greater than 0 and less
than 100 separately by year.
